Hello, I'm Andrew Maine and this is the
OpenAI podcast. Today our guests are
OpenAI's chief scientist Yakob Pahhatzki
and Simone Sedor. We're going to talk
about measuring AI progress, how you
determine AGI, and where the next
breakthrough might come from.
>> The model was able to correctly identify
that didn't make progress on the
problem.
>> We started asking very very seriously
the question like are we ready as an
organization for for incredibly
fast-paced progress? when we think about
how we shape our research program at
OpenAI. We seek to create intelligence
that's very general.
>> I want to first start off by
understanding your roles. So, Yakob,
you're the chief researcher, chief
scientist at OpenAI.
>> Chief scientist. Yes.
>> Okay. What does chief scientist mean?
>> So, the primary thing I'm responsible
for is setting the research road map for
the company. Um so deciding what is a
technical path we are going to bet on
and what is the um the underlying
long-term research that that that that
we're going to pursue.
>> So how about you Simon? What do you do?
>> Random things.
>> Random things. Okay.
>> Um yeah I I mostly do IC work. Uh I try
to um
maybe sprinkle of leadership somewhere
in there. Uh I try to do whatever is
most useful.
>> Now you two knew each other before
working at Open Eye, right?
>> Yeah, we went to the same high school.
>> Same high school.
>> Yeah.
>> Were you guys friends?
>> Uh I think we became best friends when
when uh after we left like I think kind
of coming to us is the kind of emotional
experience that forms bonds. Uh I think
in in in high school uh uh we were more
like colleagues. What what kind of high
school produces guys like you?
>> So, well, yeah, we went to this high
school in u in Poland. Uh I think we
were both drawn there by this computer
science teacher, Mr. Rashard Subarovski.
um who's had a great track record uh
before before we went there of of of of
uh bringing up uh um computer
scientists, programmers uh um with this
like big focus on programming
competitions and kind of and pursuing uh
you know excellence in this like like
one field. Yeah. So I think that was
like a very formative experience and a
great mentor for us.
>> Oh wow.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Definitely. Uh I think Keer
was like really going deep on
programming. I think it went way beyond
like typical high school curriculum like
there was like graph theory matrices and
all sorts of stuff like that. I actually
hope that maybe with CH GPT it's a
little bit easier for people now to do
this kind of deep dives
>> because um you know without the right
mentor and without
a lot of work it's it's kind of hard to
replicate that experience. I've been
using it to explain things like there's,
you know, the Monty Hall problem where
you have to choose which door and you go
into chat GPT and you say make a graphic
interactive version of this and all of a
sudden you can see it. It can show you
the different solutions if you do one
thing or the other. I think that's it's
one of these things where I'm excited
about the ability not just to explain in
text but to build multimedia to do
things. And it does get into the area of
there's not really a measure for that.
you know that it's a use case you go
this didn't exist before and you know
we're we talk about AGI but we kind of
have very loose definitions and whatever
and I'd love to hear kind of like what
how you would describe it both from a
technical and also like a lay person's
understanding of it.
>> Yeah. Well, maybe to like address the
point about teaching um you know this
sort of like better
um explanation of some concept or like
or or you know teaching chosen method is
like definitely
uh yeah powerful use of tragic and I
think works well with like
um
um a teacher like like like our Mr.
But at the same time, um I think like
the the thing that like he was able to
provide was more like kind of emotional
support and space, which I think is uh
it will be it will be hard for AI to to
to do alone. That's a great point. I
think I think that gets lost a lot cuz I
sometimes hear people talk about, oh AI
will replace education. And for me, I
had teachers that maybe their facts
weren't always right, but their heart
was there and they were carried and they
answered questions for stuff. And so I
think that's a good point that these are
companions to that and I think that a
teacher using these tools can be a more
capable teacher.
>> Yeah.
>> But so on the subject of AGI though uh I
want to hear first like give me your
technical definition of it or actually
not a technical question give me like
how you would describe it to like if you
were talking to you know a younger
sibling.
>> Yeah. A few years ago when we would talk
about AGI um
you know it felt like the techn the
technology deep learning you know has
incredible promise but at the same time
the concept still felt a little bit
abstract right and far away. Um and so I
think you know whether you talk about
like you know human level intelligence,
ability to converse naturally uh you
know ability to you know solve math
problems or pursue research like they
all kind of felt like in the same um
space.
Um
I think
yeah as as technology has progressed now
we see there's like this these are
actually like quite distinct uh
capabilities and I think we pretty
clearly are at the point where the AI is
able to converse naturally uh on a a
wide range of topics um you know it is
able to solve math problems I think you
know like getting gold medal at IMO is
something we've long discussed as like a
milestone on the path to AGI and that
that happened. Um I think um solving you
know solving all the problems on the
national map lay actually a little bit
harder and and you know I think it's
like another milestone on the path there
but I think increasingly um you know we
see that like this kind of pointwise
measures are less adequate and so we we
turn to thinking about like what is what
is its actual impact in the world. Um,
for me personally, the the the the
thing that I think about when I think
about how um AI progress really impacts
the world meaningfully, I I I first
think about its potential for automating
um the discovery and production of new
technology.
Um
I think um
you know we tend to associate kind of
new ideas you know fundamental
technological progress with just human
ingenuity. Uh and you know we we we
measure kind of the you know the the our
progress by this like kind of major
milestone inventions and and and and
technological revolutions. Um and I
think it is just hard to internalize
like this is possible to automate most
of this process. It is possible to have
uh big computer that is coming up with
ideas that fundamentally change our
understanding of the world. And I I
actually think that is not that far
away. Uh and so thinking about that you
know what separates us from that and
what are the consequences of such
technology is is yeah is my first
thought. I I just ordered a little Mac
Studio because I want to take uh the
open source model GPDOSS and I want to
just let it run non-stop because that
idea just the idea of letting it
generate and do stuff 24/7 is
fascinating to me. But you're talking
about a scale of basically automating
science at a huge scale. And so what
kind of discoveries what kind of things
do we think might be the first things we
could see from that?
When we think about how we shape our
research program at OpenAI, we seek to
create intelligence that is very
general. Um we you know drive towards
this automated researcher as a priority
but we um you know we don't really think
of it as like let's take this specific
domains and let's kind of like deploy
this technology there. I think that is a
way to like make faster pointwise
progress. But I think the potential for
like the really big discoveries and and
and and and
the most meaningful technology
advancement comes from this general
generality.
>> Mhm.
>> Um although still I think we see kind of
like you know the technology like uh you
know is is is kind of easier to apply in
some domains than others. I think um I
think especially in places that combine
u a large amount of reasoning with a lot
of kind of domain knowledge and
intuition
uh seem uh
very
um
very aminable to to to to these systems.
I think in particular we see like pretty
incredible results on medicine which is
very encouraging. Uh I have high hopes
about that. Um yeah I think naturally
being a company of AI researchers uh we
think a lot about u automating our own
work. I think it is also kind of a uh
you know I I don't think it's a
you know if it is if AI can indeed reach
a point where you can automate AI
research and that is probably a very
important thing to automate. Uh and you
know and similarly thinking about like
how it can help with automating research
on AI alignment and safety. I'm
obviously impressed by the like IMOI
results. I I mean I was actually about
to add that like um in the past when we
were talking about the IMO of Yakob like
that was like you know a few years ago
uh um and we were still like kind of
trying to even figure out what our
definition of AGI might be like like one
one kind of concept we were considering
is something like you know solving all
the problems on on on the math olympiad
uh and um and and why did that feel
appropriate is just like Okay, if you
have a model with such a superior
mathematical reasoning, then it should
be able to like disrupt like a bunch of
different uh domains that kind of can be
mathematically modeled. Um, right. Um, I
mean, I'm I'm in general just um
I think maybe this podcast is just a
good opportunity to to kind of like
share a little bit more of an inside
perspective. I was just astounded by the
progress. I I think so sometimes I see
those headlines where it where people
say that like oh um the economic kind of
impact of AI is only like 3% or 5% right
and those headlines are often
accompanied by by comments like well so
AI is slowing down or or or you know
like like like like people are
overhyping AI so much and it's only like
3% so what's up with that right and uh
and when I you know when I see headlines
like this. I I remember to like maybe 10
years ago I was working on natural
language processing uh in in in with
deep learning and back then it just
didn't really work. Like I remember
Jakob once came to test like one of the
technologies we were working on and that
was like trying to detect sentiment of
sentences and he was trying this movie
is bad correctly classified as negative
this movie is good correctly classified
as positive and then he would say this
movie is not bad and the model is like
oh negative.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Right. So that was 10 years ago. Right.
And since then like okay like like we we
slowly got like uh uh we slowly started
solving tasks like this solving tasks
like decide is this word a noun a verb
that was like sentiment neuron then then
we then we had GPT1 GPT2 started
producing like a paragraph of text that
made sense right that was such a
breakthrough right now it feels so
simple but back then it was such a
breakthrough then we had like GPD3 GPD4
GP4 was like to me like kind of like
let's say my personal AGI moment uh
>> because it would sometimes say things
that surprised me and I was like can
this model actually surprise me right
it's still back then like charge GPT for
my personal
use kind of felt a little bit more like
a nuance and kind of like maybe slightly
better Google but like like what's the
big deal and then like suddenly we get
to deep research and and this can
actually like answer questions to really
like rarely make things up. That that
felt useful. And then finally now we
have like models that can like compete
in programming competitions which was
like a you know like very hard earned
for me personally and even more so for
obviously uh and u yeah the the the pace
of progress just like from the
perspective of somebody working on this
technology is like absolutely amazing.
So, so when you see that 3% like I
raised you like 10 years ago if you had
to quantify it, it would probably be
like 0.00001%
or something, right? So, like really
like really I think I think those
numbers need to be put in perspective,
right? And and and there is no reason
not to believe that like in a year it
will be 10%, in two years it will be 20
and so on so so far. Yeah, I've heard it
said that if you looked at like a graph
of the economy from let's say like you
know uh worldwide web you know early 90s
forward and he said point to the
internet happening to the economy you
can't find the point there's no point
you go oh okay Tim Berners Lee announced
this whatever and I think AI is a lot
like that where people go oh we've only
measured this one our measures are hard
it's hard to know that you know one
who's using it how they're using it and
you brought up a very good point too
about if you've been following it for a
while I remember training like a very
simple next character predictor on my
computer and it was terrible, right?
One, I'm using a small computer, but
even then and then you got, you know,
the sentiment analysis, you're playing
with bird and it's kind. But then GPT2
comes out and I read every single output
on GitHub. Every single output GPT2 came
out because I'm like, there is something
going on with this. And that's how I
ended up working at OpenAI was because I
was this obsessive person about that.
Then with access to GPD3 kept saying,
oh, this is really this path that's
moving forward. But it's kind of crazy
now because like if six weeks go by and
a benchmark hasn't been broken, people
are like, "Oh, we hit the wall. We hit
the wall." And I would say part of the
problem though is that benchmarks in
some ways feel like you'll see modest
improvement on them. I've heard some of
the benchmarks have problems. Some of
them actually have wrong answers and
it's impossible to get 100% if you
answer them correctly. But also, we talk
about the term internally. I've heard
people talk about this as, you know,
saturation. Do you want to talk about
that? Yeah, I think I think there's a
there's a few issues that that that that
we're hitting with benchmarks right now.
Um yeah, I mean a pretty clear one is
saturation and that is just the models
genuinely reaching a point where you
know for the kind of standardized forms
of measuring um intelligence or ability
like they are uh at human level for a
lot of them uh
you know if you're kind of like able to
to you know perform in and in in in
amongst the top on this like very hard
high school competitions where we have
um you know the the the best competitors
from around the world um
it just becomes quite hard to like have
this like like very uh very constrained
uh measurement. You know previously when
we were looking at you know this like
yeah GPT1 GPT2 GP3 GP4 scaling paradigm
um you know the benchmarks were really
very they were really just like
measuring the rising of the tide. Um I
think now um you know the field has
developed a lot of uh more data
efficient ways to train for specific
abilities right doesn't mean you know
train on these benchmarks but you can
train models that are like
disproportionately good at math compared
to their ability um you know to write
for example right and and so they will
do better on math benchmarks but it's no
longer as representative of their of
their of their overall intelligence uh
in other topics
um I think you know these two issues
combined
Yeah, I think I think we really have to
think about the reward utility of these
models and especially like their ability
to uh discover new insights.
>> Yeah, I guess that's a thing that sort
of kind of gets overlooked is that you
can build a model that's a really good
test taker, but that model may not
really be that useful for work. Ideally,
your model should score well on tests,
but just because a model got these
scores doesn't mean you're going to find
it personally useful. And I certainly
think that's a challenge we're at now
where when people say is a model good or
bad. It's kind of like saying, you know,
you're trying to create a blanket
assessment when there's 100 different
use cases for it. You know, is a model
good or bad? Maybe it's great at
creative writing, maybe it's bad at
math, maybe it's great at math and bad
at creative writing. And that becomes a
really big challenge. And we've talked
about this with like one for math,
international math olympiad and these
kinds of metrics. Why are they
important? Why is it important to put it
into these sort of human level
competitions?
>> I think the reason we've been excited
about these competitions like the
international math olympat
information utad is that um they are
a pretty interesting example of like a
test that is constrained doesn't require
that much knowledge but really tests
your ability to to think about a problem
hard for you know an hour or two or
three. Um
and you know and we have like a very
kind of good uh we have very good
evidence like these problems are hard.
Uh you know there's a lot of people that
try to solve them and compete at solving
them and it matters to them. Um,
so yeah, so I think this is and you know
like for for models that like you know
excelled at like kind of knowing a lot
of things but not necessarily uh you
know thinking very hard in the past that
that really seemed like the kind of the
the right milestone to be working
towards.
>> Now I'm so I understand it the model
that scored gold medal level on that
wasn't using like a calculator. It
wasn't using other tools. It wasn't
using some of the frameworks. was doing
it purely through reasoning.
>> Yeah, that's right. For for the for the
International Math Olympiad, uh yeah,
the model was not using uh other tools
like uh Yeah.
>> And and and again, and it was like two
years ago, you asked it to multiply two
four-digit numbers, it would fail.
>> Yeah. But but definitely like, you know,
for for this kind of contest, it really
like
>> it is of course like in a limited domain
of of math, but it really is about like
fairly creative thinking, not about
applying a formula.
I guess that's part of the challenge
though is that once you start moving
outside of math, it gets to be harder.
You can start to come up with things
like humanity's last exam, which I think
is a pretty neat test, but you find that
certain models after they learn a
certain kind of tool use kind of figure
out maybe sort of how to solve these
problems better. And I would wonder what
kind of benchmarks are we going to need?
You know, what are what are you looking
at to say, okay, this is this is how I
can kind of get an objective measure of
a capability. One thing that surprised
me in the past, I was talking to one one
of our uh co-workers here uh Anna
Makandu and I was uh telling her about
uh IMO. I was excited about like some
progress and she's like what's
uh and that that that kind of like was
like a very in front of the moment for
me because I I do realize that like some
of those benchmark we kind of live in a
bubble a little bit. Mhm.
>> For me that competition
feels important and especially like the
the computer science counterpart III
because it was a big part of my life and
so is true for many co-workers here. But
actually like for an average person like
working in other field or maybe not as
interested in mathematics or or computer
science, maybe they're interested in
history or something that the
>> Lana speaks like five languages too. So
I could see for her a different metric
based on that would be interesting.
>> Yeah. So, so, so I think like one one
thing that like um that uh it's not a
perfect metric but at least helps keep
us honest and keep helps keep us escape
the uh the bubble is uh it's just charg
us right because everybody uses charg
and they use it for all sorts of use
cases. Uh, and obviously there's like a
lot of pitfalls to using that as a
metric, but at least it avoids that
partic particular problem where like
there are just some things that I'm more
familiar with and other people might uh
appreciate other things and this gives
you like a very wide coverage.
>> Yeah. And in there too, you have subsets
of users, people who are building GPTs
and doing more complicated stuff. You
mentioned before too the fact that the
model will reason longer and that seems
like a very interesting way to evaluate
capabilities.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And I think this is also
maybe like one
um
you know challenge with focusing on only
kind of usage of like chat GPT and broad
adoption of AI as as the metric of
progress. Like I think uh this hasn't
really happened to a very meaningful
extent yet but I think it will start
happening pretty soon. we should be able
to use vastly more compute um than you
know
a a a user would normally be willing to
um um to to to to buy for themselves to
produce you know technology artifacts
that are useful to a lot of people. Um
and I I think I think that that for me
will be a very important measure of
progress. Which of these wins were the
most surprising to you?
>> I think we definitely kind of
anticipated getting to this point when
we saw the reasoning models starting to
work.
>> Um, at the same time, I think this like
recent uh set of things is very
impressive. I think maybe out of those
uh um I think I think IMO came a little
bit sooner than I expected. IMO gold
again like I think IMO problem six will
will still uh
IMO has like all the problems require
like creative thought and some
uh new insights I think but typically
like you know there's this proveral
problem six that is like requires very
out of the box thinking uh and you know
it's really kind of like usually like
outside the kind of typical domains of
the other problems um and you know so in
the past we were actually kind of
drawing a boundary between like getting
a goal you know like solving these other
problems and like actually consider
solving all the problems and in
particular problem six. So it was pretty
it was pretty pretty uh you know
hilarious in some way to see ourselves
and also Google deeper at the same time
like oh yeah we solved problems one
through five perfectly and we didn't
make any problems on problem problem
six. I think that kind of makes that
challenge pretty clear.
>> Yeah that was I think that was
interesting is that yeah that I think
that the the open model said like yeah I
don't think I can solve this. It didn't
even try or said that it had a problem
with that. Was that correct? Yeah, the
model was able to correctly identify
that didn't make progress on the
problem. That's pretty fascinating to
think about that that the model is able
to sort of determine that because uh you
know there's a lot of conversations
about people talk about hallucination
which I think it's a kind of a poorly
understood thing and there's a
difference between fluid and crystalline
thinking and you know one is how much
knowledge a model has and the other is
its problem solving capability and when
you get to the point where it's able to
do that it's able to say but hey no I
think you know I won't be able to answer
this that's pretty interesting sort of
point to get to um I've been told to ask
this question about a a live stream
in Japan.
>> Oh, so so so I think in the in the past
few weeks actually like our models have
performed incredibly well in three
competitions. Um so we talked about two
of them which is III and IMO. Um there
is also this competition for that is
open to everyone not just not not just
high schoolers um called um adcer. It's
a it's a very prestigious very
>> uh um
um highquality uh competition organized
in Japan uh but open to open to
competitors worldwide and in this
particular contest it was about um kind
of longer horizon um horistic problems
where you're you're given only a single
problem you have 10 hours to solve it
and so you have competitors uh racing to
figure out like the best approach
approach to to up to to to this like
difficult optimization problem. Um so
it's a bit different because there isn't
like a single correct solution. There
isn't like a single pattern to follow.
Like these tasks are like extremely
diverse and you you can focus on the
single task for for for 10 hours. And so
we we entered our
model into this contest. And um you to
me this this had a little bit of a
personal significance. Um I used to be a
kind of very
uh engaged competitor in the past in
this like more short form like closed
form contest like III. Um and um my
friend uh Siho um who also works at the
time um excelled at this like long
duration contest and when we work
together he would mock me a little bit
that you know my sort of contest would
be automated uh long before his um
because you know they are they're kind
of like longer duration require uh um
require require kind of more focused
work Um, and turns out like in this in
this in this contest in Japan, Sihaho
was actually like one of the top
contenders. Um, and so I was watching
this live stream watching our model kind
of race with SIHO throughout the
competition. Um, in the end, um, our
model actually got second place and Siho
won. So, you know, he alone stood in the
way of of his uh of of, you know, his
prediction not coming true.
>> Still two wins for opening eye. I think
one one thing that also stood out to me
is like Sai at the end of the
competition he was like really retired
and they interviewed him a little bit to
to to talk about his experience like in
the middle of the competition and um I
don't think I can quote him directly on
this podcast but he's like your models
are very very bad. I want to go to
sleep. I am tired.
Yeah, we we've heard talks about like
the wall. We mentioned that before and I
think it was interesting because
reasoning kind of came out of nowhere. I
mean there were you know hints of stuff
some papers and stuff but people really
hadn't kind of drawn the line. Then all
of a sudden the 01 model comes out and
the whole idea that you can not just
have a model give answers you can let
the model kind of have an inner
monologue talk to itself and solve
things through.
Do we think that's enough to take us to
AGI or there other breakthroughs needed
or there other breakthroughs you think
are going to happen? I I just need to
point out that like the team here worked
extremely hard on on this particular
thing. I need it feels like something
simple like just need longer chain of
thought but like actually to made it
work was really hard earned and um and I
do think like back to your previous
question of like what was the surprising
result when when we first noticed that
it's working or we first noticed that
that that we can train those models and
give them more data and they get better.
That was like I think one of the most
kind of shocking moments. The moments
where we are like um we started asking
uh uh like very very seriously the
question like are we ready as an
organization for for incredibly
fast-paced progress? Like I I remember
there was like one particular evening
like I think 11:00 p.m. like there was
like I think we were on the line with
with Sam and Mera and just kind of
trying to I think we got a little bit
freaked out by those results sometimes.
Sometimes that happens. Uh
>> the the pace is fast. I mean it is a
fast thing and like I said that you know
the joke is people nothing happens for 6
weeks they think it slowed down but then
if you look year over year it is. And uh
I it's a fair point cuz yeah you you
have things that you're aware of
internally when you work on something
for a couple years and there hey there's
a research paper but it's like yeah it's
not like it came out last night. It was
like there's a lot of work onto it. But
I'd say to the world was sort of
surprised by the fact that there is this
really fundamental new way to sort of
make these models do even more to take
take kind of the existing sort of
infrastructure so to speak and get a lot
more capability out of it. Where do you
think the next breakthroughs are going
to happen? I think one thing we always
try to not underestimate is the
importance of scaling. Um I think you
know even as we look at these wiz models
you know like it's not like you know the
previous scaling paradigm of
pre-training uh has vanished right like
I think we will see these things
compound
>> and I think there's also like new
uh new directions that that we can move
in in particular um we were talking
about you know extending the horizon
that these models
can uh you know plan for and and and and
reason it. And I think if you look at it
from the perspective of just like
compute spend um you know we say okay
yeah we went from GPT GPT4 was doing
some out of compute for for for every
answer to like you know GPT5 pro which
maybe uses I don't know like uh 10x 20x
I don't know like some some you know
non-trivial but in some ways not not
that impressive amount of compute more
right and can produce much better
answers. Uh I think on the scale of like
what amount of compute would you would
you be willing to spend on a problem
that actually matters to a lot of people
right on like progress on a on a on a
medical research question uh you know
progress on developing the next
generation of models right like like
these are like incomparably larger
amounts and so I think I think that is
that question of like model
persistence and ability to work for a
very long time on focus problem is a
pretty clear next
How would you
put the practical implications of AGI to
sort of like if you were talking to a
typical chat GPT user or something like
what would be the what would their
experience be like in a few years from
now or five years from now which sounds
far away but it's really not because
which is 5 years ago GPD3 came out and
that feels like a blur. What would an
AGI like model be capable of? So I I was
I was talking about automating research.
Um you know my picture of of
how that would actually look like is you
know imagine a a company of very capable
researchers and engineers that is
largely automated right and and um now
again like that is I think that is
something that like you know will
interface with the world in all sorts of
ways. It won't be just like kind of a
black box like it will you know talk to
people. It will kind of like take in
inputs. it will run experiments. But I
think like you know having having this
sort of
potential for developing new technology
and you know and other kind of artifacts
you know uh um code bases designs
um
I think I think can like radically
accelerate uh the pace of technical
progress. Um so I think that is
something that like we will feel and you
know and we need to to do a lot of work
to to get it right you know from a
technical and from societal
perspectives. Um but I think that is
kind of where I turn to I think we we
should also expect like a lot of
progress on the on the actual kind of
you know um interfaces that we interact
with.
>> Mhm.
>> You know we see like ch can can feel
quite humanlike. we can we can form
attachments with it. I think you know as
it becomes more persistent as it becomes
kind of capable of expressing itself in
like different forms and texts right
like I think that those effects will
become stronger and again like that will
be something uh I think will become a a
very big and important conversation.
>> I just got access in chat GPT to have it
actually read my calendar in Gmail and
and I realize like how far we've come
because I'm excited about that now. I'm
not really terrified that it's going to
start writing like, you know, Ewok
fanfiction to somebody, you know, and I
think that's sort of this neat threshold
that we sort of cross this sort of the
level of trust. I think there's
definitely like like we are in a place
where there's like very tough trade-off
where like there's like such clear just
economic you know personal value you can
extract out of having the model um you
know have access to a lot of your
um
all of your data. At the same time, I
think like
you know we are not at like the
threshold of like robustness where like
you know like we can fully trust these
models to not be exploited by someone
trying to exploit them.
>> Mhm.
>> Um yeah it's it's definitely like a big
problem I think you know we as a field
will have to iterate on. What would you
tell
two versions of you guys today in high
school? What would you do if you're
visiting your old classroom? What would
you say right now? Tell them about the
future. What advice would you give?
invest in Bitcoin.
>> No, I mean today today even today in
2025, what would you tell a high school
student?
>> High school students today. Oh, yeah.
Yeah, that that one is also I think a
great question, right? Because I I I
hear a lot of uh kind of would I
consider misinformation on that online?
So, you should absolutely learn to code.
like one skill that that is at premium
and will continue being at premium is to
have like um have
>> like really structured intellect that
can like break complicated problems into
pieces and you know like that might not
be programming in the future but
programming is a fine way to acquire
that skill. So are other other kind of
uh domains where you need to think a
lot. So so don't don't let people tell
you that uh you should not learn to
code. Yeah, I I learned to code late in
life and that's actually I ended up
working at OpenAI as an engineer and and
I try to explain to people just because
a system can do the thing doesn't mean
you don't want to know how it works
anymore. And as you said, when you
understand how to break down a task when
I worked at OpenAI and prompt
engineering, my coding understanding
helped me understand to take both
language and break it down and make it
do better things. I think that people
who bridge those gaps are really an
advantage. And so whenever I hear people
say like don't learn to code, it's like
do I want an airplane pilot who doesn't
understand aerodynamics? Like this
doesn't make much sense to me. Well, you
know, thinking about how I thought about
things in high school, I think it's like
pretty
incredible like how many kind of
perceived constraints are not actually
there when you really think about it.
You know, maybe maybe like the first
revelation for me was like, hey, you
know, if I really kind of like am
passionate about this computer science
stuff, like it is I can actually spend a
bit more time on it at the cost of, you
know, maybe spending a bit of a bit less
time on like, you know, like other 12
subjects in school. Um but you know but
then like you know but then like somehow
it like again like took kind of like a u
it was like a big revelation to me that
like actually you know hey I can I can I
can I can um go and you know study in
the USA at some point and like you know
that's not really something that like
seems
uh that's like obviously interaction
space and you know and obviously kind of
like you know like spending some time
here in uh Silicon Valley right and kind
of seeing like how
you know people are willing to really
like
attack these big problems with ambition
and like the kind of
um
and the belief that like you can
actually you you can actually um make a
meaningful
uh positive change in the world. Uh
yeah, I think I think has been
incredibly inspiring and uh yeah, it's
something I I I I I I I cherish about
about about this community.
>> Is there a book or something that like
inspired you?
>> I think there's a there's a couple
books. Um I remember my it's actually
Yeah, it's actually very hilarious like
thinking about it now. Um, I didn't
really connect the dots, but uh, my dad
gave me this book once um, when I was
like in a pretty uh,
um,
I think I was like 15. I was like pretty
unsure what I want to do. Um, yeah, it
was um, a Polish Polish version of a
book by like some other I didn't know.
Uh, called Hackers and Painters. Uh,
yeah. So, uh, yeah, it was actually a
Paul Graham. Uh so so I guess like uh uh
yeah again like kind of like this
community. Um
so I I found that pretty pretty
inspiring.
>> Yeah, there's something helpful I think
that hearing the message of like no it's
okay to dream big and go do stuff that
you can just make things happen in the
world. And I think that the more people
realize that kind of the better the
world gets to be. Was there any book
that influenced you or movie TV show?
Oh, movie.
I have a stupid answer to that question.
Kind of stupid bad after the profound
one that but like Okay. So, I watched
Iron Man.
>> Yeah.
>> And it inspired me to start a PhD in
robotics.
>> That's a great answer though. Like, you
know, the the Martian by Andy Weir. I
met a scientist at NASA who was a
botonist who read that book and I'm
like, "Well, they got the atmospheric
physics wrong and all this." He's like,
"Well, that's why I'm here." I'm like,
"Oh,
>> well, yeah.
>> Yeah. I guess I didn't get to the stupid
part. The stupid part was like when I
started working on robotics, I was very
disappointed how bad those robots are. I
somehow didn't occur to me that like
maybe the movie is a movie. Uh
yeah, so that whole experience was kind
of bad for me if not for would be kind
of bad for me if not for the fact that
this is there. I like met a friend who
was into deep learning and at the time I
thought all of the machine learning kind
of is a hype but it was an interesting
systems problem and then out of out of
nowhere as I'm sure like uh you know
like I would frustrate some deep mind
folks by saying that Alph Go came out uh
I'm sure it wasn't out of nowhere I'm
sure it was years in the making uh and
and that like was very inspiring I
actually think to both of us uh and and
since then it was just hard not to Yeah,
took me a while to become
um convinced that declaring is more than
a than a fad. Uh because you know like
we don't really understand the kind of
underlying optimization and you know I
think this kind of has been the story of
our research here making trying to make
progress on on on these questions like
about how it really works but it really
is like setting a physical phenomenon in
some way and you know to a classically
trained computer scientist that was a
that was a weird thing to accept.
>> Mhm. I do remember when Jakob was
telling me about like scaling up
principled convex optimization.
>> That was before Alpha Go.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And Alph Go was interesting
because first like oh cool it solved go
and then we're like yeah but it just
learned by watching all these. Then they
did Alph Go Zero where it selftaught and
you're like okay game over folks. Like
there's a trajectory here. And I think
that's continued on. But I think that
yeah, if you hadn't watched Iron Man,
maybe Thor instead, you know, maybe
things would have turned out better.
>> Who knows?
>> No, I
>> I kind of wish I studied maths instead
>> has been more useful.
>> Study what?
>> Maths.
>> Mathematics or theoretical computer
science? Either either of those like
this. Yeah,
>> physics probably. Is that
>> Oh, physics.
>> I started off as a magician. I don't
know if you know that. So, I actually
had my own reality TV show. And so you
find a very strange path to end up here.
So uh Yakob Simone, it's been an
absolute pleasure to talk to you both
and I hope we can meet again and talk
about the next big breakthrough that you
guys have been secretly working on
that's going to come out of nowhere and
we'll be like that was an overnight
thing.
>> Thanks Andrew.
>> Thank you.